packages/core/useColorMode/index.md, before:

---
category: Browser
related:
  - useDark
  - usePreferredDark
  - useStorage
---

# useColorMode

Reactive color mode (dark / light / customs) with auto data persistence.

## Basic Usage

```js
import { useColorMode } from '@vueuse/core'

const mode = useColorMode() // Ref<'dark' | 'light'>
```

By default, it will match with users' browser preference using `usePreferredDark` (a.k.a `auto` mode). When reading the ref, it will always return the current color mode (`dark`, `light` or your custom modes). When writing to the ref, it will trigger DOM updates and persist the color mode to local storage (or your custom storage). You can pass `auto` to set back to auto mode.

```ts
mode.value // 'dark' | 'light'

mode.value = 'dark' // change to dark mode and persist

mode.value = 'auto' // change to auto mode
```

## Config

```js
import { useColorMode } from '@vueuse/core'

const mode = useColorMode({
  attribute: 'theme',
  modes: {
    // custom colors
    dim: 'dim',
    cafe: 'cafe',
  },
}) // Ref<'dark' | 'light' | 'dim' | 'cafe'>
```

## Component Usage

```html
<UseColorMode v-slot="{ mode }">
  <button @click="mode = mode === 'dark' ? 'light' : 'dark'">
    Mode {{ mode }}
  </button>
</UseColorMode>
```

Commit message:

feat(useColorMode): add option to return `auto` mode (#1627)
Co-authored-by: Anthony Fu <anthonyfu117@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: dfreier <stone_stabiler.0x@icloud.com>

packages/core/useColorMode/index.md, after:

---
category: Browser
related:
  - useDark
  - usePreferredDark
  - useStorage
---

# useColorMode

Reactive color mode (dark / light / customs) with auto data persistence.

## Basic Usage

```js
import { useColorMode } from '@vueuse/core'

const mode = useColorMode() // Ref<'dark' | 'light'>
```

By default, it will match with users' browser preference using `usePreferredDark` (a.k.a `auto` mode). When reading the ref, it will by default return the current color mode (`dark`, `light` or your custom modes). The `auto` mode can be included in the returned modes by enabling the `emitAuto` option. When writing to the ref, it will trigger DOM updates and persist the color mode to local storage (or your custom storage). You can pass `auto` to set back to auto mode.

```ts
mode.value // 'dark' | 'light'

mode.value = 'dark' // change to dark mode and persist

mode.value = 'auto' // change to auto mode
```

## Config

```js
import { useColorMode } from '@vueuse/core'

const mode = useColorMode({
  attribute: 'theme',
  modes: {
    // custom colors
    dim: 'dim',
    cafe: 'cafe',
  },
}) // Ref<'dark' | 'light' | 'dim' | 'cafe'>
```

## Component Usage

```html
<UseColorMode v-slot="{ mode }">
  <button @click="mode = mode === 'dark' ? 'light' : 'dark'">
    Mode {{ mode }}
  </button>
</UseColorMode>
```
