packages/core/useMouse/index.md, before:

---
category: Sensors
---

# useMouse

Reactive mouse position

## Basic Usage

```js
import { useMouse } from '@vueuse/core'

const { x, y, source } = useMouse()
```

Touching is enabled by default. To make it only detects mouse changes, set `touch` to `false`

```js
const { x, y } = useMouse({ touch: false })
```

## Component
```html
<UseMouse v-slot="{ x, y }">
  x: {{ x }}
  y: {{ y }}
</UseMouse>
```


<!--FOOTER_STARTS-->
## Type Declarations

```typescript
export interface MouseOptions extends ConfigurableWindow {
  /**
   * Listen to `touchmove` events
   *
   * @default true
   */
  touch?: boolean
  /**
   * Reset to initial value when `touchend` event fired
   *
   * @default false
   */
  resetOnTouchEnds?: boolean
  /**
   * Initial values
   */
  initialValue?: {
    x: number
    y: number
  }
}
export declare type MouseSourceType = "mouse" | "touch" | null
/**
 * Reactive mouse position.
 *
 * @see https://vueuse.org/useMouse
 * @param options
 */
export declare function useMouse(options?: MouseOptions): {
  x: Ref<number>
  y: Ref<number>
  sourceType: Ref<MouseSourceType>
}
export declare type UseMouseReturn = ReturnType<typeof useMouse>
```

## Source

[Source](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/index.ts) • [Demo](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/demo.vue) • [Docs](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/index.md)


<!--FOOTER_ENDS-->

Commit message:

feat: useMouse supports drag and drop (#592)
- Adds the `dragover` event to continue to track mouse position while dragging.

packages/core/useMouse/index.md, after:

---
category: Sensors
---

# useMouse

Reactive mouse position

## Basic Usage

```js
import { useMouse } from '@vueuse/core'

const { x, y, source } = useMouse()
```

Touch is enabled by default. To only detect mouse changes, set `touch` to `false`.
The `dragover` event is used to track mouse position while dragging.

```js
const { x, y } = useMouse({ touch: false })
```

## Component
```html
<UseMouse v-slot="{ x, y }">
  x: {{ x }}
  y: {{ y }}
</UseMouse>
```


<!--FOOTER_STARTS-->
## Type Declarations

```typescript
export interface MouseOptions extends ConfigurableWindow {
  /**
   * Listen to `touchmove` events
   *
   * @default true
   */
  touch?: boolean
  /**
   * Reset to initial value when `touchend` event fired
   *
   * @default false
   */
  resetOnTouchEnds?: boolean
  /**
   * Initial values
   */
  initialValue?: {
    x: number
    y: number
  }
}
export declare type MouseSourceType = "mouse" | "touch" | null
/**
 * Reactive mouse position.
 *
 * @see https://vueuse.org/useMouse
 * @param options
 */
export declare function useMouse(options?: MouseOptions): {
  x: Ref<number>
  y: Ref<number>
  sourceType: Ref<MouseSourceType>
}
export declare type UseMouseReturn = ReturnType<typeof useMouse>
```

## Source

[Source](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/index.ts) • [Demo](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/demo.vue) • [Docs](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse/blob/main/packages/core/useMouse/index.md)


<!--FOOTER_ENDS-->
